Databases Project: Data Process Log

Partners:
Louie DiBernardo (LDIBERN1)
Sanddhya Jayabalan (SJAYABA1)

New Data:
We gathered location data from a source we previously did not mention. We wanted to be able to import
all city, county, and state names into the database before we added anything else so that we do not
have to go back and check if a location already exists and add it if it did not. This way we can get a
location name, look it up in the database, and then return the ID number associated. We downloaded this
data from: https://simplemaps.com/data/us-cities. It contained much more information than we needed and
had to delete the following columns:
city_ascii, county_fips, state_id, lat, lng, population, density, source, military, incorporated, timezone, ranking, zips.

We needed to add a column that contained the LocationID we generated for each location (it just counts up).
While the data already had a column with an id, because we wanted to also add extra entries for states
alone and entries with states and counties without cities, we found it easier to just make our own id
number as we go.

Since we wanted to be able to not deal with location data by hand, there is no "small" variant of this
data. Both the regular data and the "small" data use this same file.


Original Data:
We downloaded (or at least attempted to download) data from each data source we originally specified
in Phase A. Doing so posed some challenge as not all files were available to even be downloaded. Some
data like in [EXAMPLE HERE] was only available as a digital interactive map that we could explore in
the browser. Of the data we could download here is what we downloaded as from which link:

Enrollment by region and state information was downloaded from: https://nces.ed.gov/programs/digest/d13/tables/dt13_203.20.asp.
This data sheet provided us with data on enrollment numbers from 1990 to projected 2023. We did not remove any columns, but we
removed the first few rows of data since it was aggregate data divided by regions of the US (northeast, west, etc.). All of this
data got parsed into the population stats csv. We had a couple versions of this data from the same root site that was
divided by grade level and grade level group (HS, K-8). We didn't want this level of division for this devel.