Databases Project
Partners:
Louie DiBernardo (LDIBERN1)
Sanddhya Jayabalan (SJAYABA1)

Members:
Louie DiBernardo (LDIBERN1)
Sanddhya Jayabalan (SJAYABA1)

Modifications:
From our original Phase A, we did not change domains or many of our questions. We had more than 15 questions
originally, which definitely helped when we needed to make queries since we had to adapt a few of them
to fit our actual dataset. We did not have to pull additional datasets since our original list contained so many
different options, we actually found our selves being somewhat selective with our data to not have enormous
amounts. Overall we maintained the integrity of the original plan we had in Phase A.

Process:
Only change to our data that we made this time was adding data to our MetabolicDisease-small.txt file from the
larger file. This was because when we started to graph our results, we found that we did not have enough data
for some of our queries. We did not add much to it, but we added enough to make the results look good.

Successes:
When it came to inserts, we found it difficult to deal with locations since the users should only interact
with names and words, not id numbers. We solved this by either hiding the locationID when we returned from
php files where we requested a list of states, or we used our getLocationID function to get the id from
state name, county name, and city name if applicable.

A big success for us was back in the beginning of the project. Not only finding the sources and types of data
we wanted to use, but also cleaning all of data. It took a lot of time for us to work through all of it, and
in the end definitely paid off because we have some awesome data.


Known Issues:
We had attempted to make cascading drop down boxes for location selection for the inserts, but were
unsuccessful in doing so. We found it added a lot of complexity and would not work without some additional
overhead. We think this would be a great addition to our site as it then allows users to see first what locations
we already have, and then can add more if need be. This wasn't required, but we really wanted to do it.

Extensions:
We think it would be awesome to expand the bonus section of the website so users can more freely interact with
our tables. We added one example with the food assistance data but we wanted to add more visualization and
options. We feel this would be a much more user-friendly way to learn and interact with data than just a large
endless table of rows.

Second, just overall making the site appear nicer to the eyes. In the beginning we were trying to take our
time and try to make the site look nice but we found that without additional tools and frameworks, it would be
very difficult to do so.

